# 1: C

## s***ome definitions***

*Source Code* is what human programmers write and understand. 

*Machine Code* is what computers understand. It’s written in binary 

And a *Compiler* converts source code into machine code. 

*Good Code* has three aspects 

- *Correctness*
- *Design (this relates to efficiency and code architecture)*
- *Style (this relates to readability)*

*********VS Code********* is the de facto industry standard IDE

*GUI* is a Graphical User Interface

*CLI* is a Command Line Interface, which is more often used by developers

## ***hello, world in C***

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void) {
	printf("hello, world\n");
}
```

## running ***hello, world from the command line***

```c
% make hello
			***make: `hello' is up to date.***
% ./hello
			***hello, world***
```

This assumes that the file is named hello.c

## ************libraries in C************

When C was designed, computers had very limited computational power and thus efficiency was paramount. As a result, C doesn’t implicitly have any functionality. Libraries have to be added using header files to incorporate functionality, hence why this line is in the hello.c program… 

```c
#include <stdio.h>
```

## *working with numbers*

Things to look out for are 

- Integer overflow.
- Floating point imprecision.

## ******************************data types******************************

In C, you need to declare the data type of a variable, the first time it is declared. Data types include…

- **int:** a whole number between -2X10^9 and 2x10^9
- **unsigned** **int:** a whole number between 0 and 4x10^9
- **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************char:************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************** a single character. Chars can only be a single character because a char is only assigned a byte of memory which can only accommodate one character.
- **************float:************** a decimalised number. The range is indeterminate because while there are 32 bits/characters to work with, the decimal will effect the output size of those characters.
- ******************double:****************** a decimalised number. Very much like a float but with 64 bits/characters. Doubles can help with floating point imprecision.
- **void**: not a data type but it is a type. It is used in functions that don’t require an argument to be passed into them.
- **bool**: a true/false data type.
- **string**: a string is just a string of characters glued together
- **struct:** a data type that allows you to stick ints and strings together.

## ***operators***

- Assignment operator is ‘=’
- Equality operator is ‘==’
- Modulus operator is ‘%’
- Multiplication operator is ‘*’
- Division operator is ‘/’
- Addition operator is ‘+’
- Subtraction operator is ‘-’
- Increment operator is ‘++’
- Decrement operator is ‘—’
- False operator is ‘0’
- False operator is ‘1’
- The AND logical operator is ‘&&’
- The OR logical operator is ‘||’
- The NOT logical operator is ‘!’
- The four relational operators are ‘>’, ‘<’, ‘≥’, ‘≤’

## ***switch cases***

```c
int x = GetInt();
switch (x)
{
	case 1:
		.....;
		break;
	case 2:
		.....;
		break;
	case 3:
		.....;
		break;
	case 4:
		.....;
		break;
	default:
		......;
		break;
}
```

## ? :

This is very handy for quick turnaround if…else statements. 

```c
int x = get_int(boolean) ? 5 : 6;

// if the boolean is true, x = 5
// if the boolean is false, x = 6
```

## ***do… while***

Useful for when you want to run some code at least 1.

```c
do
{
	age = getAge();
}
while (age < 1);
```

## command line

- **ls** ⇒  this will list all the files in a directory
- **cd _____** ⇒ change directory
- **cd ../ ⇒** go back one directory
- **pwd ⇒** present working directory
- **cd** ⇒ go to home directory
- **mkdir** ⇒ make a new folder/directory
- **cp hello.txt hi.txt** ⇒ make a copy of hello.txt and calls it hi.txt
- **cp -r folder1 folder2** ⇒ make a copy of the folder folder1 and calls it folder2
    
    
- **rm hi.txt** ⇒ removes hi.txt with prompting
- **rm -f hello.txt ⇒** removes hello.txt without prompting
- **rm -r folder2** ⇒ removes the folder folder2 with prompting
- **rm -rf folder1 ⇒** removes the folder folder1 without prompting

- **mv greddy.c greedy.c** ⇒ renames greddy.c to greedy.c

## Magic Numbers

In C, you can use #define to declare program constants

```bash
#define DECKSIZE 52;
#define COURSE "CS50";
```